President Biden arrived Monday for an unannounced visit to Ukraine's capital, offering a huge show of support for the country the U.S. and its allies have helped to hold out during Russia's nearly-year-long, unprovoked invasion. Mr. Biden spent Monday morning in Kyiv with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, whom he promised unwavering backing and another tranche of American weapons.  

"I am in Kyiv today to meet with President Zelenskyy and reaffirm our unwavering and unflagging commitment to Ukraine's democracy, sovereignty, and territorial integrity," Mr. Biden said in a statement released by the White House, confirming his first visit to Ukraine since the war began. 

Mr. Biden's visit to the region, which was to see him meet later in the day with other European leaders in Poland, comes as the world prepares to mark a full year since Russian President Vladimir Putin launched his full-scale invasion of Ukraine — and amid concerns first publicized over the weekend by America's top diplomat that China may be on the brink of providing Russia with weapons to bolster its assault.

Putin ordered the land invasion and the beginning of a devastating aerial bombardment of Ukraine on Feb. 24, 2022. He sent tens of thousands of troops over the border in an attack that appeared aimed at quickly toppling Zelenskyy's Western-aligned government.

Putin's forces vastly outnumbered Ukraine's, and for months the Russians closed in on the capital city of Kyiv from several directions, illegally annexing Ukrainian territory as they went. Many expected Kyiv to fall within just days, but a year later, Ukraine is still locked in a fight for its survival.

Backed by most of the Western world — and crucially bolstered by U.S. and European weapons shipments that continue today — Zelenskyy's troops managed to turn the tide and start clawing back territory in the second half of last year.

What Putin refers to only as a "special military operation" largely stalled over the winter months, with both sides digging in along a front line that spans hundreds of miles through eastern Ukraine's industrial Donbas region, from the north to the south of the country.

"When Putin launched his invasion nearly one year ago, he thought Ukraine was weak and the West was divided. He thought he could outlast us. But he was dead wrong," Mr. Biden said in the statement released by the White House. "Today, in Kyiv, I am meeting with President Zelenskyy and his team for an extended discussion on our support for Ukraine. I will announce another delivery of critical equipment, including artillery ammunition, anti-armor systems, and air surveillance radars to help protect the Ukrainian people from aerial bombardments."

